README: Fully refactor it (#1983)
bluerobotics/cockpit: README.md

  <p>
    <a href="https://docs.bluerobotics.com/cockpit">🌐 Live Demo</a> •
    <a href="https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/installation/">📦 Install</a> •
    <a href="https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs">📖 Documentation</a> •
    <a href="https://discuss.bluerobotics.com/c/bluerobotics-software/cockpit">💬 Community</a>
  </p>
</div>

<br>

<div align="center">
  <img style="width: 65%" src="./public/images/screen.png"><br>
</div>

<br>

[![Test, Build and Deploy Images](https://github.com/bluerobotics/cockpit/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bluerobotics/cockpit/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/bluerobotics/cockpit/total?label=Downloads)
[![Latest Beta](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/bluerobotics/cockpit.svg?label=Latest%20Beta)](https://github.com/bluerobotics/cockpit/releases)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/docker/v/bluerobotics/cockpit?label=Docker)](https://hub.docker.com/r/bluerobotics/cockpit/tags)

---

## 🎯 What is Cockpit?

  <p><strong>An intuitive, customizable, and powerful ground control station software for remote vehicles of all types</strong></p>

> Cockpit is a web-based ground control station that aims improve how you interact with remote vehicles. Whether you're piloting underwater ROVs, surface boats, aerial drones or ground rovers, Cockpit provides an intuitive and highly customizable interface that adapts to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cockpit is a web-based ground control station that aims to improve how you interact with remote vehicles. Whether you're piloting underwater ROVs, surface boats, aerial drones, or ground rovers, Cockpit provides an intuitive and highly customizable interface that adapts to your needs.
```

- **Snapshot capture** with GPS metadata
- **Video statistics** for monitoring stream quality

### 🗺️ **Mission Planning**
- **Interactive map interface** with drag-and-drop waypoints
- **Survey generation** for automated area coverage
- **Points of interest** management
- **Mission import/export** for easy backup and reuse
- **Real-time mission monitoring** and execution

### 📊 **Data Management**
- **[Data Lake](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#data-lake)** for centralized variable storage and retrieval
- **[Telemetry logging](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#telemetry)** with customizable video overlay
- **Real-time [plotting](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#data-plotting)** and [indicators](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#very-generic-indicators) for easy visualization

### 🔌 **Extensibility**
- **Plugin architecture** for custom widgets
- **JavaScript API** for external integrations
- **HTTP actions** for calling external services
- **MAVLink actions** for sending custom commands
- **JavaScript actions** for completely custom integrations

---

## 📦 Available Widgets

> Cockpit provides an extensive list of widgets for you to customize your experience. They are divided between Regular and Mini Widgets and can be placed [anywhere on your screen](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#display-breakdown), be it free in your Views or inside Containers like the top and bottom bars.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cockpit provides an extensive list of widgets for you to customize your experience. They are divided into Regular and Mini Widgets and can be placed [anywhere on your screen](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#display-breakdown), be it free in your Views or inside Containers like the top and bottom bars.
```

But maybe:

```suggestion
Widgets are customizable UI components divided into Regular Widgets and Mini Widgets. Cockpit provides an extensive list of these for you to personalize your experience. They can be placed [anywhere on your screen](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#display-breakdown), be it free in your Views or inside Containers like the top and bottom bars.
```

You can read more about the available widgets in our [docs](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#widgets).

---

## 🚀 Advanced Features

> One of our goals in Cockpit is to provide powerful integration tools, so you can interface with any system, as complex as it is. To accomplish that we designed tools like the [Cockpit Actions](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#cockpit-actions-1), which allow you to perform custom tasks (e.g.: run arbitrary code, call external APIs) and the [Data Lake](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#data-lake), which provides a centralized place for you to store and retrieve data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of our goals in Cockpit is to provide powerful integration tools, so you can interface with any system, no matter how complex it is. To accomplish that, we designed tools like the [Cockpit Actions](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#cockpit-actions-1), which allow you to perform custom tasks (e.g., run arbitrary code, call external APIs), and the [Data Lake](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#data-lake), which provides a centralized place for you to store and retrieve data.
```

> Be sure to check our docs for more information on how to take advantage of those powerful tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to check our docs for more information on how to take advantage of these powerful tools.
```
(if we are referring to the tools we've just described)

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

> Cockpit is built with modern web technologies, which help us advance the development fast and to easily receive external contributions. Here you can find part of our stack:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cockpit is built with modern web technologies, which help us advance development quickly and easily receive external contributions. Here you can find part of our stack:
```

- **Communication**: WebSocket and WebRTC for real-time data

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! We don't have a contribution guide yet, but you can help us in different ways:

- 🐛 **Bug Reports**: Help us improve by reporting issues
- 💡 **Feature Requests**: Suggest new capabilities
- 🔧 **Code Contributions**: Submit pull requests
- 📝 **Documentation**: Improve our [docs](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs) and examples

---

## 🛠️ Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- **Node.js** 18+ and **yarn** package manager
- **Git** with submodule support

### Development Workflow
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

### Quick Development Start
```bash
# Clone with submodules
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/bluerobotics/cockpit.git
cd cockpit

# Install dependencies
yarn install

# Start development server
yarn dev --host

# Start Electron development server
yarn dev:electron --host
```

The development server will start at `http://localhost:5173` with hot reload enabled.

### Backend Services (Optional)
For full functionality, Cockpit relies on some backend services.

> Those services are included by default on [BlueOS](https://github.com/bluerobotics/blueos), but if you want to use Cockpit without having BlueOS installed in your vehicle, you should install the following on the vehicle or on your top-side computer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These services are included by default on [BlueOS](https://github.com/bluerobotics/blueos), but if you want to use Cockpit without BlueOS installed on your vehicle, you should install the following on the vehicle or on your top-side computer:
```

1. **MAVLink streaming**: [mavlink2rest](https://github.com/mavlink/mavlink2rest)
2. **Video Streaming**: [mavlink-camera-manager](https://github.com/mavlink/mavlink-camera-manager)

> Today, Cockpit already ships with `mavlink2rest` built-in, so you don't need to install it anymore, but if you want to transmit video you will need to install and setup `mavlink-camera-manager` in your top-side device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, Cockpit already ships with `mavlink2rest` built-in, so you don't need to install it anymore. However, if you want to transmit video, you will need to install and set up `mavlink-camera-manager` on your top-side device.
```

> Today, Cockpit already ships with `mavlink2rest` built-in, so you don't need to install it anymore. However, if you want to transmit video, you will need to install and set up `mavlink-camera-manager` on your top-side device.

Author: Removed.

---

## 🚀 Advanced Features

One of our goals in Cockpit is to provide powerful integration tools, so you can interface with any system, no matter how complex it is. To accomplish that, we designed tools like the [Cockpit Actions](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#cockpit-actions-1), which allow you to perform custom tasks (e.g., run arbitrary code, call external APIs), and the [Data Lake](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#data-lake), which provides a centralized place for you to store and retrieve data.

Be sure to check our docs for more information on how to take advantage of these powerful tools.

---

## ⚠️ Current Limitations

While Cockpit is a powerful and feature-rich ground control station, there are some current limitations to be aware of:

### 📹 **Video Processing Constraints**
Cockpit records video in "chunks" at each second and then reconstructs them into a complete video file through a processing step. For longer recordings, this reconstruction process can exceed your computer's memory capacity.

- **Recommended limit**: Keep recordings under **30 minutes** for reliable in-app processing

> - **For longer recordings**: Use our [online processing tool](https://cockpit-online-processing.rlehmk.dev/) to process video chunks in batches (e.g. 1000 chunks each time) and then combine the resulting files with external video editing software

Author: Yes. LosslessCut. Will add it.

- **Processing capability varies** by computer specifications - systems with more RAM can handle longer recordings. Testing before critical missions is encouraged

> ### 🚁 **Vehicle Support Gaps**

Author: Yes. Will add.

> - **PX4 autopilots**: Currently not supported, though MAVLink communication is implemented

Author: Mostly vehicle identification and creating dedicated classes for them, with their vehicle modes and stuff.

### ✨ Key Highlights

- **🌐 Universal Platform**: Runs in your browser or as a native desktop application
- **🎨 Fully Customizable**: Drag-and-drop widget interface that adapts to your workflow
- **🚀 Multi-Vehicle Support**: Control submarines, boats, drones and rovers from one interface
- **📹 Advanced Video**: Support for as many video streams as you need, with recording, snapshots, and real-time statistics
- **🗺️ Mission Planning**: Sophisticated waypoint planning with automated survey patterns
- **🎮 Joystick Support**: Extensive gamepad support with customizable button mappings
- **🔧 Extensible**: Advanced plugin system with DIY widgets, custom actions, data-lake variables, and input elements
- **📊 Data Rich**: Comprehensive telemetry logging and real-time data visualization

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Option 1: Try it Online
If you just want to take a look at Cockpit, you can visit our **[live demo](https://docs.bluerobotics.com/cockpit)** to experience it instantly in your browser.

### Option 2: Download Desktop App (Recommended)

> Download the [latest release](https://github.com/bluerobotics/cockpit/releases/latest) of our native desktop app for your platform.

Reviewer 2: They're dynamic to the latest (stable) release :-)

Although there's no macOS ARM link yet, since that's not available for the stable software, so will come in the next docs PR.

ArduCopter and ArduPlane have received initial support on Cockpit, with dedicated widgets for Takeoff and Landing, with ArduCopter being done with real-life tests. It should be noticed thought that we don't perform regular tests on those, so use it at your own risk.

<div align="center">
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td align="center">
        <img src="src/assets/brov2-marker.png" width="80"><br>
        <strong>Submarines</strong><br>
        <em>ArduSub</em>
      </td>
      <td align="center">
        <img src="src/assets/blueboat-marker.png" width="80"><br>
        <strong>Surface Boats</strong><br>
        <em>ArduRover</em>
      </td>
      <td align="center">
        <img src="src/assets/arducopter-top-view.png" width="80"><br>
        <strong>Drones</strong><br>
        <em>ArduCopter</em>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

---

## 🎨 Features Overview

### 🖥️ **Customizable Interface**
- **Drag-and-drop widgets** for complete layout control
- **Multiple views** for different operational modes
- **Responsive design** that works on all screen sizes

> - **Dark/light themes** with customizable glass effects

Author: I meant that you can basically customize it the way you want, but I will rephrase that.

### 🎮 **Vehicle Control**
- **ArduPilot support** for submarines, drones, planes, and rovers

> - **MAVLink protocol** for reliable communication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[MAVLink protocol](https://mavlink.io/en/)** for reliable communication
```

> - **Joystick integration** with support for Xbox, PlayStation, and other controllers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Joystick integration](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#joysticks)** with support for Xbox, PlayStation, and other controllers
```

- **Custom button mappings** for different vehicle types
- **Real-time telemetry** with customizable data displays

### 📹 **Video Streaming**

> - **WebRTC-based streaming** for low-latency video

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[WebRTC-based streaming](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#webrtc-video-player)** for low-latency video
```

- **Multi-stream support** with stream mapping

> - **Video recording** with automatic processing and metadata

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Video recording](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#webrtc-video-recorder)** with automatic processing and metadata
```

- **Snapshot capture** with GPS coordinates and telemetry
- **Video statistics** for monitoring stream quality

### 🗺️ **Mission Planning**
- **Interactive map interface** with drag-and-drop waypoints
- **Survey patterns** for automated area coverage
- **Points of interest** management

> - **Mission import/export** in standard formats

Author: It's our own standard actually. Will rephrase.

- **Real-time mission monitoring** and execution

### 📊 **Data Management**

> - **Data Lake** for centralized variable storage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Data Lake](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#data-lake)** for centralized variable storage
```
Docs to add this section aren't merged yet, but should be soon.

> - **Telemetry logging** with customizable parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Telemetry logging](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#telemetry)** with customizable parameters
```

- **Export capabilities** for data analysis

> - **Real-time plotting** and visualization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Real-time [plotting](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#data-plotting)** and visualization
```

> - **Historical data playback**

Reviewer 2: When was this added‽ Also definitely needs to be documented.

Author: The historical data playback was AI non-sense that I didn't catch 😝

### 🔌 **Extensibility**
- **Plugin architecture** for custom widgets
- **JavaScript API** for external integrations
- **HTTP actions** for calling external services
- **BlueOS extensions** support
- **Custom actions** with full JavaScript execution

---

> ## 📦 Available Widgets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 📦 [Available Widgets](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#widgets)
```

### 📹 **Video & Visual**
- **Video Player**: Multi-stream video with controls
- **Attitude Indicator**: Aircraft-style attitude display
- **Compass**: Traditional and HUD-style compass
- **Virtual Horizon**: 3D attitude visualization
- **Depth HUD**: Submarine-style depth indicator

### 🗺️ **Navigation**
- **Map**: Interactive map with vehicle tracking
- **Plotter**: Real-time data plotting
- **Image View**: Static image display with overlays

### 🎛️ **Controls & Status**
- **Mini Widgets Bar**: Compact status indicators
- **Alerter**: System alerts and notifications
- **Battery Indicator**: Power status monitoring
- **Mode Selector**: Flight mode switching
- **Armer Button**: Vehicle arming controls

### 🔧 **Custom & Advanced**
- **DIY Widget**: Build your own custom interfaces
- **IFrame**: Embed external web content
- **Collapsible Container**: Organize widgets efficiently
- **External Widgets**: Load widgets from BlueOS extensions

---

## 🚀 Advanced Features

> ### ⚡ **Cockpit Actions**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### ⚡ **[Cockpit Actions](https://blueos.cloud/cockpit/docs/latest/usage/advanced/#cockpit-actions-1)**
```
